---
source_url: https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guides/packages/packages-editor/
synced: 2026-05-12
handbook: block-editor
chapter: reference-guides
sub_chapter: package-reference
slug: editor
parent_order: 3
sub_order: 9
page_order: 50
title: "@wordpress/editor"
code_quality: degraded
code_issue: pre_newline_loss
---

# @wordpress/editor

This module utilizes components from the `@wordpress/block-editor` package. Having an awareness of the concept of a WordPress post, it associates the loading and saving mechanism of the value representing blocks to a post and its content. It also provides various components relevant for working with a post object in the context of an editor (e.g., a post title input component). This package can support editing posts of any post type and does not assume that rendering happens in any particular WordPress screen or layout arrangement.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/editor --save
```

*This package assumes that your code will run in an **ES2015+** environment. If you’re using an environment that has limited or no support for such language features and APIs, you should include [the polyfill shipped in `@wordpress/babel-preset-default`](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/HEAD/packages/babel-preset-default#polyfill) in your code.*

## How it works

The logic flow concerning the editor includes: inferring a block representation of the post content (parsing); describing the state of a post (representation); rendering of the post to the DOM (rendering); attaching controls to manipulate the content a.k.a blocks (UI).

The goal of the editor element is to let the user manipulate the content of their posts in a deterministic way—organized through the presence of blocks of content. Usually, in a declarative flow, the pieces that compose a post would be represented in a certain order and the machine would be able to generate an output view from it with the necessary UI controls. However, we don’t begin in WordPress with a representation of the state of the post that is conductive to this expression nor one that even has any knowledge of blocks because content is stored in a serialized way in a single field.

Such a crucial step is handled by the grammar parsing which takes the serialized content of the post and infers an ordered block list using, preferably, syntax hints present in HTML comments. The editor is initialized with a state representation of the block nodes generated by the parsing of the raw content of a post element: `wp.blocks.parse( post.content.raw )`.

The *visual editor* is thus a component that contains and renders the list of block nodes from the internal state into the page. This removes any trace of imperative handling when it comes to finding a block and manipulating a block. As a matter of fact, the visual editor or the text editor are just two different—equally valid—views of the same representation of state. The internal representation of the post content is updated as blocks are updated and it is serialized back to be saved in `post_content`.

Individual blocks are handled by the `VisualBlock` component, which attaches event handlers and renders the `edit` function of a block definition to the document with the corresponding attributes and local state. The `edit` function is the markup shape of a component while in editing mode.

## Components

Because many blocks share the same complex behaviors, reusable components are made available to simplify implementations of your block’s `edit` function.

### BlockControls

When returned by your block’s `edit` implementation, renders a toolbar of icon buttons. This is useful for block-level modifications to be made available when a block is selected. For example, if your block supports alignment, you may want to display alignment options in the selected block’s toolbar.

Example:

> [!WARNING]
> Code block appears degraded due to lost newlines during scraping.

```js
( function ( editor, React ) { var el = React.createElement, BlockControls = editor.BlockControls, AlignmentToolbar = editor.AlignmentToolbar; function edit( props ) { return [ // Controls: (only visible when block is selected) el( BlockControls, { key: 'controls' }, el( AlignmentToolbar, { value: props.align, onChange: function ( nextAlign ) { props.setAttributes( { align: nextAlign } ); }, } ) ), // Block content: (with alignment as attribute) el( 'p', { key: 'text', style: { textAlign: props.align } }, 'Hello World!' ), ]; }} )( window.wp.editor, window.React );
```

Note in this example that we render `AlignmentToolbar` as a child of the `BlockControls` element. This is another pre-configured component you can use to simplify block text alignment.

Alternatively, you can create your own toolbar controls by passing an array of `controls` as a prop to the `BlockControls` component. Each control should be an object with the following properties:

- `icon: string` – Slug of the Dashicon to be shown in the control’s toolbar button
- `title: string` – A human-readable localized text to be shown as the tooltip label of the control’s button
- `subscript: ?string` – Optional text to be shown adjacent the button icon as subscript (for example, heading levels)
- `isActive: ?boolean` – Whether the control should be considered active / selected. Defaults to `false`.

To create divisions between sets of controls within the same `BlockControls` element, passing `controls` instead as a nested array (array of arrays of objects). A divider will be shown between each set of controls.

### RichText

Render a rich [`contenteditable` input](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Editable_content), providing users the option to add emphasis to content or links to content. It behaves similarly to a [controlled component](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/forms.html#controlled-components), except that `onChange` is triggered less frequently than would be expected from a traditional `input` field, usually when the user exits the field.

The following properties (non-exhaustive list) are made available:

- `value: string` – Markup value of the field. Only valid markup is  
allowed, as determined by `inline` value and available controls.
- `onChange: Function` – Callback handler when the value of the field changes,  
passing the new value as its only argument.
- `placeholder: string` – A text hint to be shown to the user when the field  
value is empty, similar to the  
[`input` and `textarea` attribute of the same name](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Forms/HTML5_updates#The_placeholder_attribute).

Example:

> [!WARNING]
> Code block appears degraded due to lost newlines during scraping.

```js
( function ( editor, React ) { var el = React.createElement, RichText = editor.RichText; function edit( props ) { function onChange( value ) { props.setAttributes( { text: value } ); } return el( RichText, { value: props.attributes.text, onChange: onChange, } ); } // blocks.registerBlockType( ..., { edit: edit, ... } );} )( window.wp.editor, window.React );
```

## API

### AlignmentToolbar

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.AlignmentToolbar` instead.

### Autocomplete

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.Autocomplete` instead.

### AutosaveMonitor

Monitors the changes made to the edited post and triggers autosave if necessary.

The logic is straightforward: a check is performed every `props.interval` seconds. If any changes are detected, `props.autosave()` is called. The time between the change and the autosave varies but is no larger than `props.interval` seconds. Refer to the code below for more details, such as the specific way of detecting changes.

There are two caveats:

- If `props.isAutosaveable` happens to be false at a time of checking for changes, the check is retried every second.
- The timer may be disabled by setting `props.disableIntervalChecks` to `true`. In that mode, any change will immediately trigger `props.autosave()`.

*Usage*

```jsx
<AutosaveMonitor interval={ 30000 } />
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: – The properties passed to the component.
- *props.autosave* `Function`: – The function to call when changes need to be saved.
- *props.interval* `number`: – The maximum time in seconds between an unsaved change and an autosave.
- *props.isAutosaveable* `boolean`: – If false, the check for changes is retried every second.
- *props.disableIntervalChecks* `boolean`: – If true, disables the timer and any change will immediately trigger `props.autosave()`.
- *props.isDirty* `boolean`: – Indicates if there are unsaved changes.

### BlockAlignmentToolbar

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockAlignmentToolbar` instead.

### BlockControls

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockControls` instead.

### BlockEdit

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockEdit` instead.

### BlockEditorKeyboardShortcuts

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockEditorKeyboardShortcuts` instead.

### BlockFormatControls

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockFormatControls` instead.

### BlockIcon

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockIcon` instead.

### BlockInspector

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockInspector` instead.

### BlockList

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockList` instead.

### BlockMover

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockMover` instead.

### BlockNavigationDropdown

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockNavigationDropdown` instead.

### BlockSelectionClearer

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockSelectionClearer` instead.

### BlockSettingsMenu

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockSettingsMenu` instead.

### BlockTitle

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockTitle` instead.

### BlockToolbar

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.BlockToolbar` instead.

### CharacterCount

Renders the character count of the post content.

*Returns*

- `number`: The character count.

### cleanForSlug

Performs some basic cleanup of a string for use as a post slug

This replicates some of what [sanitize_title()](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/functions/sanitize_title/) does in WordPress core, but is only designed to approximate what the slug will be.

Converts Latin-1 Supplement and Latin Extended-A letters to basic Latin letters. Removes combining diacritical marks. Converts whitespace, periods, and forward slashes to hyphens. Removes any remaining non-word characters except hyphens and underscores. Converts remaining string to lowercase. It does not account for octets, HTML entities, or other encoded characters.

*Parameters*

- *string* `string`: Title or slug to be processed

*Returns*

- `string`: Processed string

### ColorPalette

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.ColorPalette` instead.

### ContrastChecker

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.ContrastChecker` instead.

### CopyHandler

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.CopyHandler` instead.

### createCustomColorsHOC

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.createCustomColorsHOC` instead.

### DefaultBlockAppender

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.DefaultBlockAppender` instead.

### DocumentBar

This component renders a navigation bar at the top of the editor. It displays the title of the current document, a back button (if applicable), and a command center button. It also handles different states of the document, such as “not found” or “unsynced”.

*Usage*

```html
<DocumentBar />
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.title* `string`: A title for the document, defaulting to the document or template title currently being edited.
- *props.icon* `IconType`: An icon for the document, no default. (A default icon indicating the document post type is no longer used.)

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered DocumentBar component.

### DocumentOutline

Renders a document outline component.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.onSelect* `Function`: Function to be called when an outline item is selected
- *props.hasOutlineItemsDisabled* `boolean`: Indicates whether the outline items are disabled.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### DocumentOutlineCheck

Component check if there are any headings (core/heading blocks) present in the document.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component to be rendered or null if there are headings.

### EditorHistoryRedo

Renders the redo button for the editor history.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: – Props.
- *ref* `Ref`: – Forwarded ref.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### EditorHistoryUndo

Renders the undo button for the editor history.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: – Props.
- *ref* `Ref`: – Forwarded ref.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### EditorKeyboardShortcuts

Handles the keyboard shortcuts for the editor.

It provides functionality for various keyboard shortcuts such as toggling editor mode, toggling distraction-free mode, undo/redo, saving the post, toggling list view, and toggling the sidebar.

### EditorKeyboardShortcutsRegister

Component for registering editor keyboard shortcuts.

*Returns*

- `Element`: The component to be rendered.

### EditorNotices

> 
> **Deprecated** since 7.0, use `wp.notices.InlineNotices` instead.

### EditorProvider

This component establishes a new post editing context, and serves as the entry point for a new post editor (or post with template editor).

It supports a large number of post types, including post, page, templates, custom post types, patterns, template parts.

All modification and changes are performed to the `@wordpress/core-data` store.

*Usage*

```jsx
<EditorProvider post={ post } settings={ settings } __unstableTemplate={ template }> { children }</EditorProvider>
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.post* `[Object]`: The post object to edit. This is required.
- *props.\_\_unstableTemplate* `[Object]`: The template object wrapper the edited post. This is optional and can only be used when the post type supports templates (like posts and pages).
- *props.settings* `[Object]`: The settings object to use for the editor. This is optional and can be used to override the default settings.
- *props.children* `[React.ReactNode]`: Children elements for which the BlockEditorProvider context should apply. This is optional.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered EditorProvider component.

### EditorSnackbars

> 
> **Deprecated** since 7.0, use `wp.notices.SnackbarNotices` instead.

### EntitiesSavedStates

Renders the component for managing saved states of entities.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.close* `Function`: The function to close the dialog.
- *props.renderDialog* `boolean=`: Whether to render the component with modal dialog behavior.
- *props.variant* `string`: Changes the layout of the component. When an `inline` value is provided, the action buttons are rendered at the end of the component instead of at the start.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### ErrorBoundary

ErrorBoundary is used to catch JavaScript errors anywhere in a child component tree, log those errors, and display a fallback UI.

It uses the lifecycle methods getDerivedStateFromError and componentDidCatch to catch errors in a child component tree.

getDerivedStateFromError is used to render a fallback UI after an error has been thrown, and componentDidCatch is used to log error information.

### FontSizePicker

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.FontSizePicker` instead.

### getColorClassName

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.getColorClassName` instead.

### getColorObjectByAttributeValues

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.getColorObjectByAttributeValues` instead.

### getColorObjectByColorValue

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.getColorObjectByColorValue` instead.

### getFontSize

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.getFontSize` instead.

### getFontSizeClass

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.getFontSizeClass` instead.

### getTemplatePartIcon

Helper function to retrieve the corresponding icon by area name.

*Parameters*

- *areaOrIconName* `string`: The area name (e.g., ‘header’, ‘navigation-overlay’).

*Returns*

- `Object`: The corresponding icon.

### InnerBlocks

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.InnerBlocks` instead.

### Inserter

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.Inserter` instead.

### InspectorAdvancedControls

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.InspectorAdvancedControls` instead.

### InspectorControls

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.InspectorControls` instead.

### linkAutocompleter

A link completer for posts and pages.

*Type*

- `Object`

### LocalAutosaveMonitor

Monitors local autosaves of a post in the editor. It uses several hooks and functions to manage autosave behavior:

- `useAutosaveNotice` hook: Manages the creation of a notice prompting the user to restore a local autosave, if one exists.
- `useAutosavePurge` hook: Ejects a local autosave after a successful save occurs.
- `hasSessionStorageSupport` function: Checks if the current environment supports browser sessionStorage.
- `LocalAutosaveMonitor` component: Uses the `AutosaveMonitor` component to perform autosaves at a specified interval.

The module also checks for sessionStorage support and conditionally exports the `LocalAutosaveMonitor` component based on that.

### MediaPlaceholder

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.MediaPlaceholder` instead.

### MediaUpload

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.MediaUpload` instead.

### mediaUpload

Upload a media file when the file upload button is activated. Wrapper around uploadMedia() that injects the current post ID.

*Parameters*

- *$0* `Object`: Parameters object passed to the function.
- *$0.additionalData* `?Object`: Additional data to include in the request.
- *$0.allowedTypes* `string`: Array with the types of media that can be uploaded, if unset all types are allowed.
- *$0.filesList* `Array`: List of files.
- *$0.maxUploadFileSize* `?number`: Maximum upload size in bytes allowed for the site.
- *$0.onError* `Function`: Function called when an error happens.
- *$0.onFileChange* `Function`: Function called each time a file or a temporary representation of the file is available.
- *$0.onSuccess* `Function`: Function called after the final representation of the file is available.
- *$0.multiple* `boolean`: Whether to allow multiple files to be uploaded.

### MediaUploadCheck

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.MediaUploadCheck` instead.

### MultiSelectScrollIntoView

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.MultiSelectScrollIntoView` instead.

### NavigableToolbar

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.NavigableToolbar` instead.

### ObserveTyping

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.ObserveTyping` instead.

### PageAttributesCheck

Wrapper component that renders its children only if the post type supports page attributes.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: – The component props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: – The child components to render.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered child components or null if page attributes are not supported.

### PageAttributesOrder

Renders the Page Attributes Order component. A number input in an editor interface for setting the order of a given page. The component is now not used in core but was kept for backward compatibility.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PageAttributesPanel

Renders the Page Attributes Panel component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PageAttributesParent

Renders the Page Attributes Parent component. A dropdown menu in an editor interface for selecting the parent page of a given page.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component to be rendered. Return null if post type is not hierarchical.

### PageTemplate

Provides a dropdown menu for selecting and managing post templates.

The dropdown menu includes a button for toggling the menu, a list of available templates, and options for creating and editing templates.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered ClassicThemeControl component.

### PanelColorSettings

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.PanelColorSettings` instead.

### PlainText

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.PlainText` instead.

### PluginBlockSettingsMenuItem

Renders a new item in the block settings menu.

*Usage*

```php
// Using ES5 syntaxvar __ = wp.i18n.__;var PluginBlockSettingsMenuItem = wp.editor.PluginBlockSettingsMenuItem; function doOnClick() { // To be called when the user clicks the menu item.} function MyPluginBlockSettingsMenuItem() { return React.createElement( PluginBlockSettingsMenuItem, { allowedBlocks: [ 'core/paragraph' ], icon: 'dashicon-name', label: __( 'Menu item text' ), onClick: doOnClick, } );}

// Using ESNext syntaximport { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PluginBlockSettingsMenuItem } from '@wordpress/editor'; const doOnClick = () => { // To be called when the user clicks the menu item.}; const MyPluginBlockSettingsMenuItem = () => ( <PluginBlockSettingsMenuItem allowedBlocks={ [ 'core/paragraph' ] } icon="dashicon-name" label={ __( 'Menu item text' ) } onClick={ doOnClick } />);
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component props.
- *props.allowedBlocks* `[Array]`: An array containing a list of block names for which the item should be shown. If not present, it’ll be rendered for any block. If multiple blocks are selected, it’ll be shown if and only if all of them are in the allowed list.
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The [Dashicon](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) icon slug string, or an SVG WP element.
- *props.label* `string`: The menu item text.
- *props.onClick* `Function`: Callback function to be executed when the user click the menu item.
- *props.small* `[boolean]`: Whether to render the label or not.
- *props.role* `[string]`: The ARIA role for the menu item.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PluginDocumentSettingPanel

Renders items below the Status & Availability panel in the Document Sidebar.

*Usage*

```php
// Using ES5 syntaxvar el = React.createElement;var __ = wp.i18n.__;var registerPlugin = wp.plugins.registerPlugin;var PluginDocumentSettingPanel = wp.editor.PluginDocumentSettingPanel; function MyDocumentSettingPlugin() { return el( PluginDocumentSettingPanel, { className: 'my-document-setting-plugin', title: 'My Panel', name: 'my-panel', }, __( 'My Document Setting Panel' ) );} registerPlugin( 'my-document-setting-plugin', { render: MyDocumentSettingPlugin,} );

// Using ESNext syntaximport { registerPlugin } from '@wordpress/plugins';import { PluginDocumentSettingPanel } from '@wordpress/editor'; const MyDocumentSettingTest = () => ( <PluginDocumentSettingPanel className="my-document-setting-plugin" title="My Panel" name="my-panel" > <p>My Document Setting Panel</p> </PluginDocumentSettingPanel>); registerPlugin( 'document-setting-test', { render: MyDocumentSettingTest } );
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component properties.
- *props.name* `string`: Required. A machine-friendly name for the panel.
- *props.className* `[string]`: An optional class name added to the row.
- *props.title* `[string]`: The title of the panel
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The [Dashicon](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) icon slug string, or an SVG WP element, to be rendered when the sidebar is pinned to toolbar.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component to be rendered.

### PluginMoreMenuItem

Renders a menu item in `Plugins` group in `More Menu` drop down, and can be used to as a button or link depending on the props provided. The text within the component appears as the menu item label.

*Usage*

```php
// Using ES5 syntaxvar __ = wp.i18n.__;var PluginMoreMenuItem = wp.editor.PluginMoreMenuItem;var moreIcon = wp.element.createElement( 'svg' ); //... svg element. function onButtonClick() { alert( 'Button clicked.' );} function MyButtonMoreMenuItem() { return wp.element.createElement( PluginMoreMenuItem, { icon: moreIcon, onClick: onButtonClick, }, __( 'My button title' ) );}

// Using ESNext syntaximport { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PluginMoreMenuItem } from '@wordpress/editor';import { more } from '@wordpress/icons'; function onButtonClick() { alert( 'Button clicked.' );} const MyButtonMoreMenuItem = () => ( <PluginMoreMenuItem icon={ more } onClick={ onButtonClick }> { __( 'My button title' ) } </PluginMoreMenuItem>);
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component properties.
- *props.children* `[React.ReactNode]`: Children to be rendered.
- *props.href* `[string]`: When `href` is provided then the menu item is represented as an anchor rather than button. It corresponds to the `href` attribute of the anchor.
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The [Dashicon](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) icon slug string, or an SVG WP element, to be rendered to the left of the menu item label.
- *props.onClick* `[Function]`: The callback function to be executed when the user clicks the menu item.
- *props.other* `[...*]`: Any additional props are passed through to the underlying [Button](https://developer.wordpress.org/block-editor/reference-guide/components/button/) component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PluginPostPublishPanel

Renders provided content to the post-publish panel in the publish flow (side panel that opens after a user publishes the post).

*Usage*

> [!WARNING]
> Code block appears degraded due to lost newlines during scraping.

```js
// Using ESNext syntaximport { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PluginPostPublishPanel } from '@wordpress/editor'; const MyPluginPostPublishPanel = () => ( <PluginPostPublishPanel className="my-plugin-post-publish-panel" title={ __( 'My panel title' ) } initialOpen={ true } > { __( 'My panel content' ) } </PluginPostPublishPanel>);
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component properties.
- *props.className* `[string]`: An optional class name added to the panel.
- *props.title* `[string]`: Title displayed at the top of the panel.
- *props.initialOpen* `[boolean]`: Whether to have the panel initially opened. When no title is provided it is always opened.
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The [Dashicon](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) icon slug string, or an SVG WP element, to be rendered when the sidebar is pinned to toolbar.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PluginPostStatusInfo

Renders a row in the Summary panel of the Document sidebar. It should be noted that this is named and implemented around the function it serves and not its location, which may change in future iterations.

*Usage*

```js
// Using ES5 syntaxvar __ = wp.i18n.__;var PluginPostStatusInfo = wp.editor.PluginPostStatusInfo; function MyPluginPostStatusInfo() { return React.createElement( PluginPostStatusInfo, { className: 'my-plugin-post-status-info', }, __( 'My post status info' ) );}

// Using ESNext syntaximport { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PluginPostStatusInfo } from '@wordpress/editor'; const MyPluginPostStatusInfo = () => ( <PluginPostStatusInfo className="my-plugin-post-status-info"> { __( 'My post status info' ) } </PluginPostStatusInfo>);
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component properties.
- *props.className* `[string]`: An optional class name added to the row.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PluginPrePublishPanel

Renders provided content to the pre-publish side panel in the publish flow (side panel that opens when a user first pushes “Publish” from the main editor).

*Usage*

> [!WARNING]
> Code block appears degraded due to lost newlines during scraping.

```js
// Using ESNext syntaximport { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PluginPrePublishPanel } from '@wordpress/editor'; const MyPluginPrePublishPanel = () => ( <PluginPrePublishPanel className="my-plugin-pre-publish-panel" title={ __( 'My panel title' ) } initialOpen={ true } > { __( 'My panel content' ) } </PluginPrePublishPanel>);
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component props.
- *props.className* `[string]`: An optional class name added to the panel.
- *props.title* `[string]`: Title displayed at the top of the panel.
- *props.initialOpen* `[boolean]`: Whether to have the panel initially opened. When no title is provided it is always opened.
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The [Dashicon](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) icon slug string, or an SVG WP element, to be rendered when the sidebar is pinned to toolbar. If `false` is passed, no icon will be rendered.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PluginPreviewMenuItem

Renders a menu item in the Preview dropdown, which can be used as a button or link depending on the props provided. The text within the component appears as the menu item label.

*Usage*

> [!WARNING]
> Code block appears degraded due to lost newlines during scraping.

```js
import { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PluginPreviewMenuItem } from '@wordpress/editor';import { external } from '@wordpress/icons'; function onPreviewClick() { // Handle preview action} const ExternalPreviewMenuItem = () => ( <PluginPreviewMenuItem icon={ external } onClick={ onPreviewClick }> { __( 'Preview in new tab' ) } </PluginPreviewMenuItem>);registerPlugin( 'external-preview-menu-item', { render: ExternalPreviewMenuItem,} );
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component properties.
- *props.children* `[React.ReactNode]`: Children to be rendered.
- *props.href* `[string]`: When `href` is provided, the menu item is rendered as an anchor instead of a button. It corresponds to the `href` attribute of the anchor.
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The icon to be rendered to the left of the menu item label. Can be a Dashicon slug or an SVG WP element.
- *props.onClick* `[Function]`: The callback function to be executed when the user clicks the menu item.
- *props.other* `[...*]`: Any additional props are passed through to the underlying MenuItem component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered menu item component.

### PluginSidebar

Renders a sidebar when activated. The contents within the `PluginSidebar` will appear as content within the sidebar. It also automatically renders a corresponding `PluginSidebarMenuItem` component when `isPinnable` flag is set to `true`. If you wish to display the sidebar, you can with use the `PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem` component or the `wp.data.dispatch` API:

```text
wp.data .dispatch( 'core/edit-post' ) .openGeneralSidebar( 'plugin-name/sidebar-name' );
```

*Related*

- PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem

*Usage*

```php
// Using ES5 syntaxvar __ = wp.i18n.__;var el = React.createElement;var PanelBody = wp.components.PanelBody;var PluginSidebar = wp.editor.PluginSidebar;var moreIcon = React.createElement( 'svg' ); //... svg element. function MyPluginSidebar() { return el( PluginSidebar, { name: 'my-sidebar', title: 'My sidebar title', icon: moreIcon, }, el( PanelBody, {}, __( 'My sidebar content' ) ) );}

// Using ESNext syntaximport { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PanelBody } from '@wordpress/components';import { PluginSidebar } from '@wordpress/editor';import { more } from '@wordpress/icons'; const MyPluginSidebar = () => ( <PluginSidebar name="my-sidebar" title="My sidebar title" icon={ more }> <PanelBody>{ __( 'My sidebar content' ) }</PanelBody> </PluginSidebar>);
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Element props.
- *props.name* `string`: A string identifying the sidebar. Must be unique for every sidebar registered within the scope of your plugin.
- *props.children* `[React.ReactNode]`: Children to be rendered.
- *props.className* `[string]`: An optional class name added to the sidebar body.
- *props.title* `string`: Title displayed at the top of the sidebar.
- *props.isPinnable* `[boolean]`: Whether to allow to pin sidebar to the toolbar. When set to `true` it also automatically renders a corresponding menu item.
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The [Dashicon](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) icon slug string, or an SVG WP element, to be rendered when the sidebar is pinned to toolbar.

### PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem

Renders a menu item in `Plugins` group in `More Menu` drop down, and can be used to activate the corresponding `PluginSidebar` component. The text within the component appears as the menu item label.

*Usage*

```php
// Using ES5 syntaxvar __ = wp.i18n.__;var PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem = wp.editor.PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem;var moreIcon = React.createElement( 'svg' ); //... svg element. function MySidebarMoreMenuItem() { return React.createElement( PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem, { target: 'my-sidebar', icon: moreIcon, }, __( 'My sidebar title' ) );}

// Using ESNext syntaximport { __ } from '@wordpress/i18n';import { PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem } from '@wordpress/editor';import { more } from '@wordpress/icons'; const MySidebarMoreMenuItem = () => ( <PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem target="my-sidebar" icon={ more }> { __( 'My sidebar title' ) } </PluginSidebarMoreMenuItem>);
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component props.
- *props.target* `string`: A string identifying the target sidebar you wish to be activated by this menu item. Must be the same as the `name` prop you have given to that sidebar.
- *props.children* `[React.ReactNode]`: Children to be rendered.
- *props.icon* `[WPBlockTypeIconRender]`: The [Dashicon](https://developer.wordpress.org/resource/dashicons/) icon slug string, or an SVG WP element, to be rendered to the left of the menu item label.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostAuthor

Renders the component for selecting the post author.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostAuthorCheck

Wrapper component that renders its children only if the post type supports the author.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component to be rendered. Return `null` if the post type doesn’t supports the author or if there are no authors available.

### PostAuthorPanel

Renders the Post Author Panel component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostComments

A form for managing comment status.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostComments component.

### PostDiscussionPanel

This component allows to update comment and pingback settings for the current post. Internally there are checks whether the current post has support for the above and if the `discussion-panel` panel is enabled.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostDiscussionPanel component.

### PostExcerpt

Renders an editable textarea for the post excerpt. Templates, template parts and patterns use the `excerpt` field as a description semantically. Additionally templates and template parts override the `excerpt` field as `description` in REST API. So this component handles proper labeling and updating the edited entity.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: – Component props.
- *props.hideLabelFromVision* `[boolean]`: – Whether to visually hide the textarea’s label.
- *props.updateOnBlur* `[boolean]`: – Whether to update the post on change or use local state and update on blur.

### PostExcerptCheck

Component for checking if the post type supports the excerpt field.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostExcerptPanel

Is rendered if the post type supports excerpts and allows editing the excerpt.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostExcerptPanel component.

### PostFeaturedImage

Renders the component for managing the featured image of a post.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.currentPostId* `number`: ID of the current post.
- *props.featuredImageId* `number`: ID of the featured image.
- *props.onUpdateImage* `Function`: Function to call when the image is updated.
- *props.onRemoveImage* `Function`: Function to call when the image is removed.
- *props.media* `Object`: The media object representing the featured image.
- *props.postType* `string`: Post type.
- *props.noticeUI* `Element`: UI for displaying notices.
- *props.noticeOperations* `Object`: Operations for managing notices.

*Returns*

- `Element`: Component to be rendered .

### PostFeaturedImageCheck

Wrapper component that renders its children only if the post type supports a featured image and the theme supports post thumbnails.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostFeaturedImagePanel

Renders the panel for the post featured image.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.withPanelBody* `boolean`: Whether to include the panel body. Default true.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component to be rendered. Return Null if the editor panel is disabled for featured image.

### PostFormat

`PostFormat` a component that allows changing the post format while also providing a suggestion for the current post.

*Usage*

```html
<PostFormat />
```

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostFormat component.

### PostFormatCheck

Component check if there are any post formats.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: The child elements to render.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component or null if post formats are disabled.

### PostLastRevision

Renders the component for displaying the last revision of a post.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostLastRevisionCheck

Wrapper component that renders its children if the post has more than one revision.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: Rendered child components if post has more than one revision, otherwise null.

### PostLastRevisionPanel

Renders the panel for displaying the last revision of a post.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostLockedModal

A modal component that is displayed when a post is locked for editing by another user. The modal provides information about the lock status and options to take over or exit the editor.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostLockedModal component.

### PostPendingStatus

A component for displaying and toggling the pending status of a post.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostPendingStatusCheck

This component checks the publishing status of the current post. If the post is already published or the user doesn’t have the capability to publish, it returns null.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component properties.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered child elements or null if the post is already published or the user doesn’t have the capability to publish.

### PostPingbacks

Renders a control for enabling or disabling pingbacks and trackbacks in a WordPress post.

### PostPreviewButton

Renders a button that opens a new window or tab for the preview, writes the interstitial message to this window, and then navigates to the actual preview link. The button is not rendered if the post is not viewable and disabled if the post is not saveable.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.className* `string`: The class name for the button.
- *props.textContent* `string`: The text content for the button.
- *props.forceIsAutosaveable* `boolean`: Whether to force autosave.
- *props.role* `string`: The role attribute for the button.
- *props.onPreview* `Function`: The callback function for preview event.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered button component.

### PostPublishButton

Renders the publish button.

### PostPublishButtonLabel

Renders the label for the publish button.

*Returns*

- `string`: The label for the publish button.

### PostPublishPanel

Renders a panel for publishing a post.

### PostSavedState

Component showing whether the post is saved or not and providing save buttons.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component props.
- *props.forceIsDirty* `?boolean`: Whether to force the post to be marked as dirty.

*Returns*

- `React.ComponentType`: The component.

### PostSchedule

Renders the PostSchedule component. It allows the user to schedule a post.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.onClose* `Function`: Function to close the component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostScheduleCheck

Wrapper component that renders its children only if post has a publish action.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: – The component to be rendered or null if there is no publish action.

### PostScheduleLabel

Renders the PostScheduleLabel component.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostSchedulePanel

Renders the Post Schedule Panel component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostSticky

Renders the PostSticky component. It provides a checkbox control for the sticky post feature.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostStickyCheck

Wrapper component that renders its children only if post has a sticky action.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component to be rendered or null if post type is not ‘post’ or hasStickyAction is false.

### PostSwitchToDraftButton

Renders a button component that allows the user to switch a post to draft status.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostSyncStatus

Renders the sync status of a post.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered sync status component.

### PostTaxonomies

Renders the taxonomies associated with a post.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.taxonomyWrapper* `Function`: The wrapper function for each taxonomy component.

*Returns*

- `Array`: An array of JSX elements representing the visible taxonomies.

### PostTaxonomiesCheck

Renders the children components only if the current post type has taxonomies.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: The children components to render.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered children components or null if the current post type has no taxonomies.

### PostTaxonomiesFlatTermSelector

Renders a flat term selector component.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.slug* `string`: The slug of the taxonomy.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered flat term selector component.

### PostTaxonomiesHierarchicalTermSelector

Hierarchical term selector.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Component props.
- *props.slug* `string`: Taxonomy slug.

*Returns*

- `Element`: Hierarchical term selector component.

### PostTaxonomiesPanel

Component that renders the post taxonomies panel.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostTemplatePanel

Displays the template controls based on the current editor settings and user permissions.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostTemplatePanel component.

### PostTextEditor

Displays the Post Text Editor along with content in Visual and Text mode.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostTextEditor component.

### PostTitle

Renders the `PostTitle` component.

*Parameters*

- \_\_\_ `Object`: Unused parameter.
- *forwardedRef* `Element`: Forwarded ref for the component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostTitle component.

### PostTitleRaw

Undocumented declaration.

### PostTrash

Displays the Post Trash Button and Confirm Dialog in the Editor.

*Parameters*

- *An* `?{onActionPerformed: Object}`: object containing the onActionPerformed function.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostTrash component.

### PostTrashCheck

Wrapper component that renders its children only if the post can be trashed.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: The child components.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered child components or null if the post can’t be trashed.

### PostTypeSupportCheck

A component which renders its own children only if the current editor post type supports one of the given `supportKeys` prop.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: Props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: Children to be rendered if post type supports.
- *props.supportKeys* `(string|string[])`: String or string array of keys to test.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component to be rendered.

### PostURL

Renders the `PostURL` component.

*Usage*

```html
<PostURL />
```

*Parameters*

- *props* `{ onClose: () => void }`: The props for the component.
- *props.onClose* `() => void`: Callback function to be executed when the popover is closed.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostURL component.

### PostURLCheck

Check if the post URL is valid and visible.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: The child components.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The child components if the post URL is valid and visible, otherwise null.

### PostURLLabel

Represents a label component for a post URL.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The PostURLLabel component.

### PostURLPanel

Renders the `PostURLPanel` component.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered PostURLPanel component.

### PostVisibility

Allows users to set the visibility of a post.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.onClose* `Function`: Function to call when the popover is closed.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostVisibilityCheck

Determines if the current post can be edited (published) and passes this information to the provided render function.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.render* `Function`: Function to render the component. Receives an object with a `canEdit` property.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered component.

### PostVisibilityLabel

Returns the label for the current post visibility setting.

*Returns*

- `string`: Post visibility label.

### privateApis

Undocumented declaration.

### registerEntityAction

Registers a new DataViews action.

This is an experimental API and is subject to change. it’s only available in the Gutenberg plugin for now.

*Parameters*

- *kind* `string`: Entity kind.
- *name* `string`: Entity name.
- *config* `Action`: Action configuration.

### registerEntityField

Registers a new DataViews field.

This is an experimental API and is subject to change. it’s only available in the Gutenberg plugin for now.

*Parameters*

- *kind* `string`: Entity kind.
- *name* `string`: Entity name.
- *config* `Field`: Field configuration.

### RichText

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.RichText` instead.

### RichTextShortcut

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.RichTextShortcut` instead.

### RichTextToolbarButton

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.RichTextToolbarButton` instead.

### ServerSideRender

Undocumented declaration.

### SkipToSelectedBlock

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.SkipToSelectedBlock` instead.

### store

Store definition for the editor namespace.

*Related*

- [https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/data/README.md#createReduxStore](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/data/README.md#createReduxStore)

### storeConfig

Post editor data store configuration.

*Related*

- [https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/data/README.md#registerStore](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/HEAD/packages/data/README.md#registerStore)

### TableOfContents

Renders a table of contents component.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.hasOutlineItemsDisabled* `boolean`: Whether outline items are disabled.
- *props.repositionDropdown* `boolean`: Whether to reposition the dropdown.
- *ref* `Element.ref`: The component’s ref.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered table of contents component.

### TextEditorGlobalKeyboardShortcuts

Handles the keyboard shortcuts for the editor.

It provides functionality for various keyboard shortcuts such as toggling editor mode, toggling distraction-free mode, undo/redo, saving the post, toggling list view, and toggling the sidebar.

### ThemeSupportCheck

Checks if the current theme supports specific features and renders the children if supported.

*Parameters*

- *props* `Object`: The component props.
- *props.children* `React.ReactNode`: The children to render if the theme supports the specified features.
- *props.supportKeys* `string|string[]`: The key(s) of the theme support(s) to check.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered children if the theme supports the specified features, otherwise null.

### TimeToRead

Component for showing Time To Read in Content.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered TimeToRead component.

### transformStyles

Undocumented declaration.

### unregisterEntityAction

Unregisters a DataViews action.

This is an experimental API and is subject to change. it’s only available in the Gutenberg plugin for now.

*Parameters*

- *kind* `string`: Entity kind.
- *name* `string`: Entity name.
- *actionId* `string`: Action ID.

### unregisterEntityField

Unregisters a DataViews field.

This is an experimental API and is subject to change. it’s only available in the Gutenberg plugin for now.

*Parameters*

- *kind* `string`: Entity kind.
- *name* `string`: Entity name.
- *fieldId* `string`: Field ID.

### UnsavedChangesWarning

Warns the user if there are unsaved changes before leaving the editor. Compatible with Post Editor and Site Editor.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The component.

### URLInput

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.URLInput` instead.

### URLInputButton

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.URLInputButton` instead.

### URLPopover

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.URLPopover` instead.

### useEntitiesSavedStatesIsDirty

Custom hook that determines if any entities are dirty (edited) and provides a way to manage selected/unselected entities.

*Returns*

- `Object`: An object containing the following properties: – dirtyEntityRecords: An array of dirty entity records. – isDirty: A boolean indicating if there are any dirty entity records. – setUnselectedEntities: A function to set the unselected entities. – unselectedEntities: An array of unselected entities.

### usePostScheduleLabel

Custom hook to get the label for post schedule.

*Parameters*

- *options* `Object`: Options for the hook.
- *options.full* `boolean`: Whether to get the full label or not. Default is false.

*Returns*

- `string`: The label for post schedule.

### usePostURLLabel

Custom hook to get the label for the post URL.

*Returns*

- `string`: The filtered and decoded post URL label.

### usePostVisibilityLabel

Get the label for the current post visibility setting.

*Returns*

- `string`: Post visibility label.

### userAutocompleter

A user mentions completer.

*Type*

- `Object`

### VisualEditorGlobalKeyboardShortcuts

Handles the keyboard shortcuts for the editor.

It provides functionality for various keyboard shortcuts such as toggling editor mode, toggling distraction-free mode, undo/redo, saving the post, toggling list view, and toggling the sidebar.

### Warning

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.Warning` instead.

### withColorContext

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.createCustomColorsHOC` instead.

### withColors

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.withColors` instead.

### withFontSizes

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.withFontSizes` instead.

### WordCount

Renders the word count of the post content.

*Returns*

- `React.ReactNode`: The rendered WordCount component.

### WritingFlow

> 
> **Deprecated** since 5.3, use `wp.blockEditor.WritingFlow` instead.

## Contributing to this package

This is an individual package that’s part of the Gutenberg project. The project is organized as a monorepo. It’s made up of multiple self-contained software packages, each with a specific purpose. The packages in this monorepo are published to [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and used by [WordPress](https://make.wordpress.org/core/) as well as other software projects.

To find out more about contributing to this package or Gutenberg as a whole, please read the project’s main [contributor guide](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md).
